Title: Rah-Rah
Date: September 28, 2022

Promenading last Friday on the semi-famous Boulder Mall, we stumbled upon a
Certifiably Big Event.

Ours is a college town where the three major religions are marijuana, massage,
and football. On the evening that precedes a Saturday home game, the Mall is
turned over to a football rally--a gigantic and noisy one. Have any of my
regular readers or stray internet pilgrims ever been to such an event?Â  It's
quite an echt American experience: the uniformed marching band -- all epaulets
and brass and drums, the perky cheerleaders, a float featuring sports heroes
of yore, the hundred gladiators themselves (all much taller and thicker than
ordinary human beings) along with chants and rousing speeches. Tons of school
spirit and not a shred of irony.

The next day, despite the ginned-up enthusiasm, our team was blown out by UCLA,
45-17.

Rallies are not my kind of event. I'm constitutionally allergic to rah-rah and
for the last couple of decades I've been boycotting football.

Why no more football for me? In truth, football was never my passion. I hardly
ever played the game -- only a little "two-hand touch" in the schoolyard, so
I'm not surrendering much by proscribing a sport that is a danger to everyone's
physical well-being. There are too many dreadful injuries, especially head
injuries. Too many retired players afflicted with dementia. A few days ago,
surfing the channels, I accidentally glanced at a few minutes of a NFL contest.
Even in that brief stretch, a cornerback was badly battered and carried by
stretcher into an on-field ambulance. To me, it looked like it could be a broken
neck. I'm sorry that I paused to watch; it will be along time before I do so
again.

And I've always been resistant to Rah-Rah. Rubs me wrong; always has, right from
the start.

The local mall rally caused me to remember my first days at Cornell, 66 years
ago. I was a most naive freshman (now "freshperson" or "first-year") and had not
a glimmer of an idea about college life -- none of my family or friends ever
having enjoyed such an experience. Completely at sea. My peers in the freshman
dorm insisted, you have to go to the rally. I had no idea what a rally was but
if going to college meant going to rallies, then why not? I knew no better and
tagged along with my new acquaintances. So there it was, just like last night on
the mall. The band, the cheerleaders, the athletes, the rah-rah exhortations.
One after another the speakers (were they coaches?), told us how hard we were
going to cheer tomorrow for dear old Cornell and victory. We sang Cornell songs,
the lyrics to which were handed to us on a mimeographed sheets of paper. It was
far too enthusiastic for me -- too patriotic I guess one might say. I was not
true to my school. How could I love Cornell or think fondly of my alma mater.
I had just arrived, for goodness sake, and hadn't even finished unpacking. The
insisted-upon emotion seemed contrived and artificial and I resented the pseudo-
nostalgia. I don't like being subsumed into a crowd. I respond negatively when
I'm exhorted to cheer or wave or sing. It all seems dangerously close to the
unthinking obedience of nationalist politics.

And then, next day, came the game itself. Dutifully I trudged to Schoellkopf to
watch our guys encounter Princeton. I remember nothing about the contest, not
even who won or lost. But I can still feel the cold September drizzle -- and I
know that I caught a stiff cold. In my four years in Ithaca, it was my first and
only football game.

I soon learned that Cornell had much to offer beyond the rah-rah. It took a year
or so, but eventually I found my people.