Title: Starfish Metamorphosis
Date: May 22, 2012

I've been reading about the peculiar metamorphosis of the starfish, Luidia
sarsi, which eats shellfish and dwells in the muddy sediment of seashores from
Norway to the Mediterranean. Its diaphanous larvae are bilaterally symmetrical;
the adult form, with its five arms, is radially symmetrical, a most irregular
circumstance. Moreover, the adult emerges from the larva in a different way than
the butterfly from the caterpillar, where the structure dissolves and reforms.
The starfish develops from a cluster of cells lining the internal cavity of the
larva.""Here it grows and matures, an alien existence independent of the larval
body structures, axis, bilateral symmetry, and form, imbued with a complete
disregard for every embodiment of its larval stage."Â  Eventually, the starfish
emerges, and, most oddly, the larva continues on its way "swimming the pelagic
waters and grazing on its vegetarian diet of algae". Essentially, the starfish
develops from what might be called stem cells that are carried within the larva.
It's all very alien, or perhaps even Alien.

The theory presented in Frank Ryan's The Mysteries of Metamorphosis (White
River Junction, 2011) is that at one time the larva and the starfish were two
different creatures (from two different phyla). Somewhere in the dark backward
and abyss of time, sperm from the one creature encountered an egg of the other
(both creatures eject enormous amounts of reproductive material into the sea)
and cross-phyletic cross-fertilization occurred and the resultant chimera
prospered.

Biologists resist the hypothesis because of the challenge it poses to the
standard view of the evolutionary branching of life. I'm in no position to judge
the theory's truth or falsity, but I'm attracted to the idea because it makes
life forms so much more complex and unpredictable, and because it overturns
conventional thinking.