Title: A Contemporary Brooklyn Novel:  Adelle Waldman, The Love Affairs of Nathaniel P. (2013)
Date: February 24, 2022

This curiously named novel, The Love Affairs of Nathaniel P. (no relation, thank
goodness), concerns a 30-year-old Baltimorean become Brooklynite who drifts from
bed to bed but is incapable of achieving lasting love.

Adelle Waldman takes a scalpel to Nathaniel P[iven] and also to his various
lady friends. Her analyses are sharp, incisive and sometimes painfully close
to the bone. She is not above devoting paragraphs, even pages, to dissecting a
minor event or brief conversation. Sometimes the intricacy of her observations
resembles those of Henry James, though I can't remember The Master ever
discussing either the scrotum or the anus of any of his characters. Waldman
put me in mind of a sentence with which Horatio admonishes Hamlet: '"'twere to
consider too curiously to consider so."

Reading this novel, I was relieved that I am not a 30-year-old on the hunt --
and that I never was. There's lots of sex, some of it precipitous, but not much
discussion or examples of genuine intimacy. Waldman's landscape is unfamiliar to
me -- a foreign culture or, rather, an alien civilization.

Set in Brooklyn, almost all the action takes place in Williamsburg or environs,
certainly within sight of the Manhattan skyline -- although I remember that once
or twice characters may have ventured into the Brooklyn hinterland for a pizza.

The author is amusingly aware of the way the new Brooklyn has superseded the
old:

the two groups (i.e. older residents and newcomers) might have existed on
different layers of the earth's atmosphere that only from a distance appear to
be on the same plane. A store called National Wines & Liquors, Inc, where both
liquor and cashier were enclosed behind bulletproof glass, was not actually a
competitor to the much newer Tangled Vine, which specialized in organic and
local wines and exhibited the work of area artists at its Thursday-evening
tastings.

Which reminds me that I started to read but failed to comprehend a novel called
Class (2014) by Francesco Pacifico in which Williamsburg was regularly referred
to as "Willy." Again, I ask, what would Daniel Fuchs think?

The more of these novels I read, the more Brooklyn seems like a multiply layered
palimpsest -- one culture imposed upon another, generation after generation.Â 
My own Flatbush neighborhood, now upgraded to "Kensington," was farmland right
through to the end of the 19th century, then a suburb for prosperous old
Protestant families, next a haven for Irish, Italian and Jewish immigrants and
now an ethnic stew of Hasids, Turks, Arabs, Russians, and South and Central
Americans of all kinds but also with an strong admixture of Tangled Vine dinks,
yuppies and midWestern computer geeks. It's a complex piece of urban Americana
-- one facet of which is well-illustrated by the story of unhappy Nathaniel P.