Title: Amnesia on Film: The Third Day (1965)
Date: April 28, 2020

I don't know why, but It's surprisingly common, in movieworld, that if a man
stumbles away from an automobile accident, he must cotract amnesia and he must
suspect that he's murdered someone. On top of that, it's required that he will
take full ninety minutes to prove that he is innocent of killing anyone. The
Third Day hits these notes right down the middle. But The Third Day is not just
an amnesia/murder mystery/police procedural. It's also a soap opera/marriage-on-
the-rocks movie; it's a save-the-small-town-factory from corporate raiders
story. And it's a maniac-on-the-loose horror film. The Third Day is a crowded
conflation of genres which doesn't quite succeed in finding a concord to its
redundant discord.

The first ten minutes are the best. Steve Mallory, played by George Peppard,
returns to pre-amnesia life only to discover, and be dismayed, that he's a lout,
barroom brawler, a drunk, and a womanizer. Peppard is perfectly cast because
"baffled" is his default expression. It's his gift.

Sally Kellerman, later Hot Lips Houlihan, is the vamp. Arte Johnson, later
Laugh-In's Wolfgang is the maniac. Herbert Marshall has the worst role of his
career, but if there were a lifetime achievement award for finger-acting, he
would win it. Robert Webber is the detective hot to prove that Steve Mallory is
guilty, but he should have been more empathetic because earlier that same year
he had himself suffered a full ninety minutes of amnesia in Hysteria (1965).

I could almost bring myself to admire this picture. It's well-paced, well-
directed, beautifully photographed, mysterious in parts; a couple of luminous
supporting roles. It flagged somewhere half way through. So did I.