Title: The Lobster -- Why?
Date: April 18, 2015

Thomas Fairfax, a well-known nineteenth century lobster smack captain, wrote
convincingly that "lobsters are very good as an article of commerce, and pretty
enough to look at, after they're boiled, but, as to eating them, I prefer
castoff rubber shoes." George Hoag, a down-easterner, added that "if them
tourists want to come up from Boston and pay those prices, then, by Christ, let
them. Damn fools. Lobsters, hell, they're big cockroaches, that's what they are.
You won't catch me eating one, even if I could afford the damn things." Fairfax
and Hoag may be two of the most honest men in the history of American commerce.
Lobsters are loathsome, both in appearance and as culinary articles. The meat is
stringy tasteless gristle. And inaccessible to boot. And messy to attack. How
did modern "sophisticates" get themselves bamboozled into thinking that these
big bugs of the sea should be considered a gourmet item. It boggles the healthy,
balanced, sensible mind. Lobsters are hideous insect-like creatures. Who was the
first addled individual who took a look at a lobster and said, "looks good, I'll
try it." Eeew.

Then there's the practice of immersing live lobsters in boiling water. Just
remember to put your fingers in your ears while the poor creatures screech.
Human beings degrade themselves morally and aesthetically when they lower
themselves to such indifference. How can they torture a lobster and then pretend
that the poor things are palatable.

I've eaten a couple, may all the gods of the sea forgive me. Before I reached
the age of enlightenment I would go along to get along. I never pretended to
enjoy them, but, petty conformist that I was, I would participate in the horrid
feast. Now I'd rather eat kale and tofu, tasteless trendy manifestations of
liberal guilt, than violate my integrity with a severed claw or tail.

it's time for a moral revolution in America. Let's make a start by liberating
the lobster.