Title: Updike
Date: July 07, 2009

I've shamefully neglected the writings of John Updike.  I read the first Rabbit
novel when it appeared in 1960 and was struck by its vigor and authenticity. 
A talent to watch, I said to myself -- but then I lost track.  I loved one of
the Bech books, devoured on an airline ride from somewhere to somewhere else
twenty years ago.  I've been dazzled by short stories in various anthologies
and by art criticism in the NYRB.   But for a writer considered an American
master, nominated for a Nobel  -- well, I've been inattentive.  And now Updike
is gone.  I'm late (as usual).  To remedy the personal deficiency, I hastened
to the Bradford Public Library, where, sad to say, the only Updike on the shelf
was one I'd never heard of,Villages, published in 2004.

Villages is billed as an autobiographical novel and appears to be so.  It's
eminently readable, slickly written (sometimes so facilely that it crosses into
self-parody).  But, my-oh-my, what an embarrassingly bad performance.  It's
no more than a sexual history of "Owen Mackenzie" in which the succession of
women Owen encounters are diffentiated only by the size and shapes and degrees
of mucosity and erectility of their reproductive organs.  It's an adolescent
novel written by a seventy-year-old eminence.  What the heck was Updike
thinking?. Why would he waste precious time on such unambitious, indulgent
stuff -- unless he took a long-ago manuscript out of a drawer and fooled around
with it a bit?

Disappointing indeed. A few years ago, I read through the novels of Philip Roth,
who is an exact contemporary of Updike.  My conclusion:  that Roth (see Books
over there on the side of the page) was a writer of arrested development.  Oh
no, not again!

Let's see if the BPL has anything else by Updike today.  Let's hope for the
best.  Villages has got to be an aberration.