Title: A Writing Family
Date: May 07, 2006

Yesterday we learned that my nephew Steven's book on the philosophy of martial
arts will appear in July. Hosannas to him. Steven's wife, Terrylynn, has a book
out on criminal justice.

It's a writing family. The direct descendants of Isaiah and Eta have produced
books on a wide variety of subjects.

It began when my father construed and annotated the standard form of real estate
contract. And then my brother Jon published that novel about the dance and
another family member of his generation wrote that introductory book about
Shakespeare and a bunch of stuff on English literature. NGP''s book on election
technology. My cousin Marian's twin daughters (upon whom I haven't set eyes
since their grandfather's funeral, which was in 1965, I believe) have written a
number of books. Nancy, a folklorist wrote about the hammered dulcimer and about
musical instrument making in New York in earlier centuries. Nora, a medical
anthropologist, has written a classic account of sign-language on Nantucket as
well as volumes about third-world medicine. And then there's Eve's journalism
(not yet in hardcover). If we look to the descendants of Isaiah's father, we can
include Hiram C's book on global justice.

I bet there are other books -- I've lost track of many members of the extended
family.

Also:  my sister-in-law Ellen's book on the internet; my daughter-in-law's
writings on advanced technology, and probably all sorts of other things by non-
genetic family members.           I have no statistics, but I'd guess
there's a higher concentration of published authors in our family than in most.
Is there a gene for scribbling?

It's interesting to me that except for the one novel, there are no other
stories, poetry, screenplays.Our inheritance: facts rather than fantasy.