Title: Number 44 and Number 42
Date: November 10, 2008

I'm jubilant that, come January 20, we'll once again have a president whose
brain waves are dancing, who can bring an English sentence to completion, and
who understands that America consists of much more than the Bushian roster of
Fortune 500 executives, evangelicals, know-nothings, high school dropouts,
gay- bashers, neocon imperialists, dittoheads, gun nuts, military contractors,
upward redistributionists, fetus-worshipers and health insurance profiteers.
The new president will abandon the present system of government (trust the
market -- capitalism is always right!) and return us to the world of evidence
and reason. Quite the revolution, isn't it?Â  And speaking of revolutions,
the new president, if you haven't heard, is black (or to be more accurate,
black-and-white, which is this country still means, in defiance of all logic,
black). How splendid to bury a long-standing racial taboo. Nothing makes me
prouder than that we've elected an African-American, Kenyan-Kansan president.
With a brain.

The election of Barack Obama brought me back to hometown Brooklyn of sixty-one
years ago. I was eight years old on April 15, 1947, when Jackie Robinson "broke
the color barrier." It was Jackie on first or Jackie running the bases that
alerted me to the idea that I lived in a conflict-riven society. We (family,
friends, neighbors, writers for the Brooklyn Eagle) were enthusiastic about
Jackie, but there were those reactionaries and bigots in other cities who were
convinced that their world had just come to an end. No question but that the
advent of Jackie Robinson was the major formative political experience of my
early childhood -- even though it was decades before I could fully appreciate
its cosmic significance.

In my mind, and I think in the minds of others of my generation, there's a
direct line from Jack Roosevelt Robinson to Barack Hussein Obama. Two smart,
skilled performers; two ferocious but very cool competitors. Two very courageous
gentlemen.Two barriers busted all to smithereens.Two milestones in American
history. Never the latter if hadn't hadn't been for the former.

Jackie's fabulously athletic body fell apart early and he died young of
diabetes. He was born in 1918, and if he had been blessed with longevity, he
would have been ninety years old today.

Wouldn't that have been a pretty picture -- Jackie Robinson, frail, gray,
stooped, leaning on his cane, but still in possession of that marvelous knowing
glint in his coal black eyes, sitting right there on the platform in front of
the United States Capitol, a tear on his cheek while Barack Obama holds up his
hand and swears to protect and defend the constitution of the United States of
America. I see it oh so clearly in my mind's eye. It gladdens my fond old heart.