Title: Another Film Noir:  The Brothers Rico (1957)
Date: October 21, 2019

It's not the most artistic poster (way too crowded a field) but it's a heck of
a movie. It's a familiar film noir subject: guy (in this case), Eddie Rico, a
former mobster, tries to go straight, but his past catches up with him. The
first couple of scenes establish him as legitimate businessman and husband. In
fact, the director, the ever-reliable Phil Karlson, pushes the Code envelope
when Eddie and Alice (Dianne Foster) wake in separate beds (as required by the
Legion of Decency) and he reaches over and lays his hand just an inch  or so
from her benightgowned right breast. (Makes me wonder how much negotiation was
required with the censors: "Can he put his hand here? How about here? Above?
Below?") And then when Eddie playfully asks Alice why  she married him, she
answers rather forthrightly, "I was a girl. I wanted to be a woman." Whoa, how
did Karlson slip that one through?  Did the censors not understand?

Discussion of prudery is relevant, because censorship spoils the ending of the
film. It's grim gangland world into which Eddie is reluctantly thrust. Everyone
lies, no one can be trusted, every conversation reeks of menace, and violence
is ubiquitous and casual. In the showdown, Eddie is wounded and survives, but
every element in the logic of film requires that he die. The tacked-on happy
ending, in which a headline proclaims that the gang has been destroyed and Eddie
and Alice enjoy connubial bliss, is false, and, I think, even insulting to the
intelligence of the viewer. Better to ignore it, or, better still, turn off the
tv just three minutes before the end, because the first 87 minutes are just
terrific.