Title: Side Effects
Date: June 24, 2018

LENFERA is generally safe to use, but possible side effects include stuffy
or runny nose, headaches, goosebumps, hiccups, cramps, sensitivity to bright
lights or glare, shingles, gingivitis, numbness of lips or upper palate, dry
scalp, ringing in the ears (tinnitus), acid reflux, dizziness, hair loss,
hearing loss, kidney stones, constipation and/or diarrhea, sudden loss or gain
of weight, inability to swallow, drooling, desiccation, macular degeneration,
bunions, uncontrollable twitching or muscle spasms, rectal itch, toenail fungus,
nausea, abdominal pain, difficulty with breathing, edema, fistula, halitosis,
absence of libido, tachycardia, swelling in knees or other joints, scabiosa,
bots, flatulence, loss of insight, roseola, Osceola, bloat, priapism, Purim,
bowel obstructions, failure to thrive, scoliosis, creeping phlox, aggression,
acne, increased facial or body hair, world-weariness, dyspepsia, rash,
fatigue, agoraphobia, lycanthropy, fever, tremors, blurred vision or sudden
blindness, frostbite, ringworm, procrastination, irritability, hot flashes,
mange, barnacles, pellagra, night sweats, bladderwort, paranoia, clumsiness,
thrush, zeugma, migraine, feelings of humiliation, heart arrest, tuatara,
memory loss, white nose, rapture, paralysis, stage fright, bioluminescence,
scurvy, hallucinations, chancre, catarrh, pink eye, red eye, rabies, insomnia,
nightmares, spontaneous combustion, Coggins, blurring of gender identity,
wasting disease, aphasia, blackouts, suicidal ideation, nosebleeds, woe,
catatonia, gangrene, acute pain, multiple organ failure, death.

If symptoms persist, consult your physician.

LENFERA has been approved by the FDA.