Title: Late Blight
Date: August 31, 2009

It seems so allegorically named, late blight, especially appropriate to your
septuagenarian gardener. But it's more than symbolic -- late blight is here
and it's real. It's official name is phytophthora infestans. It's a noxious
fungus and it appears just when you're about to start harvesting your abundant
tomatoes. Late blight blackens and putrifies leaves, stems, and the fruits
themselves. It leaves nothing edible, and there's no recourse but to pull out
your plants, and then either burn them or put them in black plastic and take
them to the dump. We're trying to rescue a few of the tomatoes by pulling off
the bad leaves, but it's a losing cause.  All that work -- starting the seeds,
watching and watering, fertilizing and staking and tying up -- all wasted. What
a pity.

Late blight also affects potatoes. In fact, this nasty fungus is responsible for
the great Irish famine of the 1840s. So while we're mournful, we're glad that we
don't depend on our tomatoes for sustenance or income.

Why this year?  Some say that the disease comes to us from the great factory
farms in the south, where tomato plants are started early and then shipped north
in late spring. My neighbors put the blame on Wal-Mart. But in all honesty, I
must admit that all my tomatoes were started locally, by friends and relations.
The fungus can't be transmitted through the seed, so the tomato factories are
off the hook. The real culprit is the weather -- the soggy cold of June and July
was hideous if you're a tomato but just perfect if you're a blight.

I think I'll take a year off from tomatoes -- let the garden go fallow, or just
plant flowers. I couldn't bear to lose another crop. I'll follow the official
advice -- root out every single volunteer tomato and pull every weed in the
nightshade family. No tomatoes until 2011.