Title: Is Safety an Illusion?
Date: March 01, 2023

Am I just plain nuts to think that I live in a safe and secure world? All the
evidence says "perpetual vigilance" and "it can happen here" and "keep a close
watch?

Let's look at the situation.

Our state has a violent history. In the far past: at Sand Creek in 1864, several
hundred Cheyenne and Arapahos were brutally murdered. In 1914, a century or so
ago, the Pinkertons, employed by the Rockefellers, killed no-one-knows-how-many
miners when they shot randomly into the Ludlow tent colony.

More recently, killing has become the work not of army or paid professionals but
of heavily armed civilians. In 1999 there was the horrible Columbine High School
massacre in which twelve were killed and twenty-one wounded. Just thirteen years
later came the mass killing inside a Century 16 theater in Aurora, just a few
miles south of where I live, in which twelve people were killed and another
seventy injured. Then in 2015 there was a shooting at a Planned Parenthood
clinic in which three were assassinated and nine others wounded. In March of
2021, just two years ago, in the Table Mesa King Soopers, a "gunman" killed ten
-- customers, employees, a police officer. And last year, we had the nightclub
shooting in Colorado Springs where five were murdered and twenty-five others
wounded.

I didn't happen to be in any of these places, but I might have been. Although
I wasn't at the Columbine school, I was at that very moment in a different
classroom in Denver; I didn't go to the movies to see the Dark Knight, but
I do go to theaters. It wasn't "my" King Soopers that was terrorized, but
nevertheless I've bought stuff at that very store many times when I've happened
to be in south Boulder; I wasn't at the Colorado Springs bar but I've certainly
patronized bars. In any one of these cases, It could just as easily have been me
that was shot dead or maimed. I've been one lucky fellow, but people much like
me have not been so fortunate.

Two days ago, a vicious prank phone call set off a scramble and shelter-in-place
warnings at two-block away Boulder High School. BHS is where AGP and our three
children spent many a year. This scare turned out to be a case of "swatting" --
a disgusting new practice in which a nasty sociopath calls an institution to see
if he can get a reaction from a SWAT team. Deliberate malice. Such false alarms
are not mass killings, but they're still hair-raising, anxiety-provoking, and
potentially dangerous events.

It's coming close to home, isn't it. Luck of the draw, so to speak, that I'm
still whole.

When I was a teacher, I was never in real danger but, like everyone else on the
faculty, I had a few deranged students. I remember once that a particularly
odd young lady asked to make an appointment for a conference. Wary of her, I
proposed that instead of her coming to my office that we meet in the public
cafeteria. l can't remember what she wanted to talk about, but I recall vividly
that at one point she asked, "do you think I have a gun in my purse?"Â  I
replied "I don't know whether you do or not, but I know that this meeting is now
over." I stood up and walked away, half convinced that I was about to be shot in
the back. But I wasn't.

It's a violent world; no one has ever been truly safe. But all we can do is go
blithely about our business, hoping to be spared.

I shouldn't complain; we're not in a war zone; it's not like Ukraine, where at
any moment Russian drones and shells and missiles can drop on you from the sky.