Title: Shakuntala Devi's Brain
Date: May 09, 2013

Shakuntala Devi, who died in India a week or so ago, was an incredible
arithmetician. She once "accurately multiplied two random 13-digit numbers in
a few seconds." "On a visit to this country, an American psychologist set her
two problems: the cube root of 61,629,875, and the seventh root of 170,859,375.
Shakuntala Devi gave the correct answers - 395 and 15 - even before he started
his stopwatch."

No one knows how she did this. No one has even advanced a persuasive theory.

It's difficult for me to remember a thirteen-digit number. I don't think I could
remember two thirteen-digit numbers. It's beyond my imagination to think about
multiplying them (to produce the correct twenty-six digit answer).

I'm wondering whether Devi's abilities seem so astonishing because she's out
there all by herself. If there were a cohort of people who could easily multiply
8, 9, or 12 digit numbers it wouldn't seem so wonderful that she could do 13.
But she's unique.

And intimidating.

But then I'm intimidated by Mozart, whose feats are also beyond imagining.

I wonder whether Ms. Devi carried some sort of genetic mutation. Is remarkable
proficiency at mental arithmetic an inheritable trait?  Which makes me wonder,
when did homines sapientes acquire the ability to learn the times table?  When
did the mutation for that trait first appear?

I telephoned my consultant on such matters, the blogger Political Mammal. He
says that the ordinary brain, yours and mine, does so many calculations just
when we walk down the street and compare this storefront to the one that went
out of business and to the similar one on the next block that, well,  we should
be just as astonished at quotidian events as at mental arithmetic.  I see his
point. Who knows how many synapses are firing now, even as I'm writing this
simplicity-itself post.

But writing a few words is a commonplace miracle;  extracting seventh roots --
now, that's something else.