Title: Tails
Date: January 22, 2021

Most animals, mammals included, sport tails. As well they should. Tails are
truly excellent appendages -- essential equipment for survival in many cases.
Most primates have tails, but alas, the apes, our most immediate cousins, lack
these useful "limbs." Some random mutation, way back when, and zap, no more
tails. As a result, we humans live in a tragically diminished universe. And deep
down, we feel the loss -- it's a fact that humans have been desperately trying
to grow tails for countless millennia. Embryo after embryo puts his or her whole
heart into the effort. Tails are there, prominently, between day 31 to 37 of
the gestational process, but then they disappear -- leaving the poor embryo
dispirited and regretful. In mourning! How much happier a species we would be if
we could only wag.

Tails have many uses. For locomotion, obviously. We'd be much better tree and
monkey-bar climbers if we had good prehensile tails. We wouldn't be nearly so
earthbound. There would be fewer dangerous falls if we had tails -- they're
essential for balance. Just watch a cat or a squirrel. Plus a human with a tail
could grab on to something to keep himself upright. A tail can also be used for
defense. Grab the bad guy's arm with a good strong grasping tail. Think about
how much more interesting the martial arts or wrestling would be if were were
betailed. Imagine how useful a prehensile tail would be at a cocktail party;
both your hands are occupied spreading the green stuff on the cracker, so you
hold your wine glass with your tail.

Tails are also good communicators; they're expressive. Observe canis
domesticus:Â submission, aggression, defiance, excitement, puzzlement. Tails
would be important for parent child interactions. "Don''t you dare swish your
tail at me, young lady." If dogs can do it, why couldn't we do it better?

And also sexual activity. Imagine the possibilities.

Style: "how are you wearing your tail this year?" Billion dollar industries
revolve around haircare. Tailcare offers even greater possibilities. I'm sure
that the expense of tail grooming, tail coloring, tail enhancing, and tail
bejeweling could lift us out of most recessions. Tailcare would be one of the
major drivers of the economy.

Human life would have been infinitely richer.