Title: What We Read in the Fifties:  H. M. Pulham, Esquire
Date: December 09, 2005

I re-read J. P. Marquand's H. M. Pulham, Esquire, which was published in 1940
and was still widely read during the 50s. It's disappointing that the new novel
repeats so much of The Late George Apley. Pulham is a mock autobiography,
and once again Marquand satirizes social norms by using the device of the dim
narrator (in this case Harry himself). Pulham is an upper-class Bostonian who
should have married the enterprising and highly sexual Marvin (sic) Myles
(played by Hedy Lamarr!!! in the King Vidor film version) but instead finds
himself fastened to a whiny woman of his own set. He's stuck in an unrewarding
job, his children dislike him, and he clings so blindly to respectability that
he cannot see that his dear Kay is sleeping with his best friend. It couldn't
happen because "Bill King is a gentleman." There's much about the suffocating
miasma of Boston society, but also a pointed critique of the only alternative
that's offered -- the hollow world of New York advertising. It's a post WWI
novel, and Harry served in combat, but he can't seem to leverage the lessons of
the war to free him from his Bostonianism.

Re-reading brought to mind that the buzzword of the 1950s was "conformity." It
was an age of mass-produced housing, the routinizing of jobs, and of the ascent
of mass advertising. So far, the two Marquand novels that I have read have both
taken conformity and the failed resistance to conformity as theme. Next up:
Point of No Return. I'm curious to discover whether Marquand repeats himself
again or whether he tackles other aspects of American culture. He certainly
knows how to tell a story.