Title: Lady on a Train (1945)
Date: December 12, 2017

When you start to watch a 1945 black-and-white movie called Lady on a Train you
have certain expectations, especially when you're told in advance that it's
about a woman who sees a murder take place from a train window. And when the
movie features such noir stalwarts as Dan Duryea and Ralph Bellamy. And
especially when the title of the movie evokes The Lady Vanishes and Lady in the
Lake and Strangers on a Train. But Lady on a Train is not what you might think
it's going to be; in fact, it's a film that never has a clue about what it is or
wants to be. It's an unsatisfying hodgepodge.

There are some films that are so bad that they become fascinating for sheer
awfulness. Lady on a Train is that kind of awful. It starts out noir-y and
offers, intermittently, fistfights and mistaken identities and shadows, lots of
shadows, and enough red herrings to feed cast and crew for the entire time the
film was in production. But it also takes a shot at comedy -- not sophisticated
banter but broad farce: in one scene, trying to hide herself from a hired
gunsel, the heroine disguises herself as a chair and moves around from place
to place just as she would in an Abbott and Costello vehicle. And then, if
farce/noir weren't enough of a burden, at three separate times during the
events, with the least possible justification, Deanna Durbin, playing at being a
detective, breaks into song, but only because she's Deanna Durbin, not because
the film requires her to do so. So it's a noir-farce-sentimental musical. It
just don't work, except for connoisseurs of badness.

Plus it features two of the ugliest hats ever to come out of the Hollywood
chapeau-shop:

After making this film (and another clunker) Deanna Durbin left Hollywood, where
she had been the highest paid woman in America, married and moved to France,
never appeared on stage or on film again -- and reassumed her birthname, Edna
Mae Durbin. It's a decision one can respect.