Title: Rose Zimbardo (1932-2015)
Date: November 02, 2015

When I taught Shakespeare for the first time, at CCNY in the mid-60s, fresh out
of graduate school, I was mightily unprepared. I set myself the challenge of
teaching a new play every week for thirty weeks. So every weekend I would tackle
a play that I had read but not studied and then MWF try to explain it to my
unwilling cherubs. I learned a lot but I can't imagine that I was an effective
instructor, struggling, as I was, to keep my academic head above water (and, by
the way, deal with a colicky newborn at home).

But sometime during that first year I met Rose Zimbardo, who was teaching
another section of the course, and it was from Rose that I began to learn my
trade. She was a few significant years older than I, more experienced (and more
imaginative as well). Rose invited me to go for lunch with her and her great
friend Ed Quinn, who had recently completed, nominally with O. J. Campbell, but
in fact all by himself, the still useful Shakespeare Encyclopedia. Quinn knew
everything and Rose was chock full of theories about the plays, some sensible,
some borderline daft, but all provocative. Lunches for me with Ed and Rose
became a moveable seminar -- and it is not an exaggeration to say as valuable as
another Ph. D. I was challenged, inspired.

I lost that job (good fortune in the long run) and Rose moved on to Stony Brook.
I didn't meet Ed Quinn for many years, when I encountered him at Boston hotel
sometime in the 80s, and we had a moment to reminisce. I never set eyes on Rose
again. But I thought about her and Ed often and I look back with fondness and
gratitude for all they taught me.

Ed died a few years ago, a great loss.Â And now Rose.

Last year, through the miracle of the internet, I was able to exchange a few
emails with Rose. I hope I properly expressed my appreciation for all she had
done for me. It was my intention to visit her the next time I found myself in
California (she had retired to Davis, which she professed to loathe) as part of
my farewell tour.Too late, alas.

Rose was a fine scholar, an excellent teacher, and a great lady. Rest in peace,
old friend.