Title: Garum vs. Ketchup
Date: November 11, 2018

The universal condiment in the ancient world, a staple of Roman, Greek and
Byzantine cuisines,Â was garum. Garum was manufactured in enormous quantities
and shipped in special amphorae all over the civilized, colonized universe. What
is garum? It's a fishy sauce that any sensible modern apple-pie-loving American
would avoid at all costs. Trust me, you would not want to slaver your bacon
cheeseburger with garum.

To make garum, the innards -- the guts -- of fish (whitebait, anchovies,
mackerel, tuna, etc.) were stacked between layers of salt and herbs and left in
the sun for several months. Honest to Pete!! The result, which must have been
malodorous and horrid, was then strained and bottled, or rather, poured into
amphorae for transport.

Don't believe me? Here's a direct quotation from a 10th century Byzantine
manual: "the intestines of fish are thrown into a vessel and are salted; and
small fish especially atherinae, or maenae or lycostomi are seasoned in the sun,
and frequently turned; and when they have been seasoned in the heat, the garum
is thus taken from them. A small basket of close texture is laid in the vessel
filled with the small fish already mentioned, and the garum will flow into the
basket." Sounds dreadful, you must admit. And I don't even know, and I don't
know that anyone knows, exactly what sort of monsters of the deep are designated
by the words atherinae and lycostomi.

Here's a picture of a ruined garum factory in Baelo Claudia in Spain. The
remains of such factories can be found all over the Mediterranean world. I
myself have toured one near Pompeii. Garum factories were set as far as possible
from centers of population because they, er, stunk.