Title: Updike -- Part IV
Date: September 13, 2009

The Updike-athon continues  Since my last report, I've read Museums and Women,
Bech is Back, In the Beauty of the Lilies, Rabbit Run, Rabbit Redux, Rabbit is
Rich, and Rabbit at Rest.

The good news:  Updike is fluent, a masterful stylist, a remarkable story-
teller, a distinguished craftsman.  He's original, entertaining, bold,
inventive.  The section of Beauty of the Lilies that describe Alma DeMott's
childhood in Basingstoke, Delaware is as good as anything I've read in years --
a truly classic piece of writing

The bad news:  Updike's characters have no heart  They're almost uniformly
small-minded, bigoted, hateful, unloving and, in fact, incapable of love.  The
novels are distressing and depressing.  And inconsistent.  The Rabbit quartet
is reputed to be Updike's masterpiece, but the long section about Skeeter in
Redux is a ludicrous mess, a total bomb, a failure that disfigures the entire
series

A reader who knew America only through the Rabbit series would be
convinced that Americans in the second half of the twentieth century were
selfish, money- grubbing, racist, entirely without culture, sex-obsessed,
alcoholic, uneducated, insecure, obnoxious, undisciplined and knowledgeable
only of TV trivia.  I suppose that there are such people -- but there are also
substantial citizens, artists and artisans, and good, functioning families. 
I must say that four large novels in the company of Updike's folk can wear a
reader down.  I think it's time to re-read Trollope's Palliser novels, where
there is villainy but also redemption.  I crave an antidote.